# Solar_Panel_Drive_Mechanism
The design of the solar array drive mechanism is done in a sequential manner. An initial
simple system is designed to accept a user-defined input, which is the desired angle that the solar panel has to be moved to, and move the solar panel to that desired angle while also providing feedback (mapping.ino). This system is then improved to ensure a failure tolerant system, which would function appropriately regardless of any error occurrence, an essential, especially for space applications (master.ino, slave_control.ino).

# Simple System Design
The simple system is designed to accept a user-defined input, which is the angle to which the solar panel is to be moved. Once the user input is accepted, the solar panel, through the drive mechanism, is rotated to achieve the desired angle. The system is also designed in order to check and alert the user if an error occurs. However, the system does not involve any error correction measures.

Fault-Tolerant System Design
The Cold Stand-by fault-tolerant method was selected. This method is an efficient, power-saving method, which doesn’t require any additional hardware. The algorithm is mainly based on the concept of employing a Master and a Slave Arduino, which communicate via an I2C communication. Initially, the Slave Arduino is programmed to be in sleep mode and the main servo control is performed by the Master Arduino. The master servo is programmed to calculate whether the servo has attained the desired position by comparing the feedback values. If an error is detected, the slave Arduino is woken up by the master Arduino by transmitting information to it, which acts as an Interrupt Service Routine (ISR). This wakes up the Arduino which recalculates the error calculation and sends data back to the master Arduino to put it to sleep. And the servo control is now transferred over to the slave Arduino. Thus, at one time only one Arduino is capable of controlling the servo motor, while the other is in sleep mode, thus ensuring limited power consumption. Thus any fault in one of the Arduino systems (hardware or software), is rectified by transferring to another redundant Arduino system, thus ensuring that the mission objective can still be achieved despite a fault in one of the systems. 
